Is it possible to give the "exposes"
object a function instead of an object?
>> No, these are file paths, right?
In terms of like, yeah,
can we do it programmatically?
Let's find out together.
It looks like it's just a string,
and array.
You can get an array of those objects or
an object, it seems to be
the only two options in the type.
But great question.
Cool, so here we'll do,
we have the NPM run build,
so we'll just do a npx vite preview.
And then just verifying that
I made that the correct.
Show many, we want that to be React one.
Verify, yeah.
Okay, let's find out together.
We got some TypeScript angriness,
but we can deal with that.
Again, we could generate a d.ts file and
still pull that in as a library too.
It will be slightly off if it changes,
but that's what makes this all hard.
So npm run dev.
Let's find out.
Open in my other Window, but there it is.
There's our button hosted remotely, right?
So theoretically let's try
this out let's go ahead and
on our remote one we're gonna go
let's change some of the semantics
of the button let's say that the button
color is, background color is
Cool, and we'll do a npm run build.
It is angry about that,
oop, no, it was there.
>> Contained in there still,
get the hex for the color.
>> See, this is why you don't trust
other people shipping you code,
even if it's you, cuz they make
mistake and who's getting paged now?
Other me from the mistake
that this me made.
If I didn't, we got to build again, see?
Now all of a sudden your
page is going off, right?
I'm already in trouble for the last time
I like was talking to a microfrontends.
This is not gonna go well for me.
The Internet is not gonna be happy with
me when Marc makes this a TikTok video.
There it is and now it's purple, right?
And so
you can remotely change code in one place.
Everyone consuming this gets it hoping
that nobody on the beginning end.
And accidentally puts a hashtag
before Rebecca Purple, and
you should be good to go.
Like I said, there are useful places.
If I was going to use this, and I do use
it, I would do it with an abundance of
caution, with fallbacks
all over the place, right?
And so
I would most likely replace the nav bar,
that maybe, I would basically do both.
I would have the library, right?
And then have this function
replace the last version so
that if we pushed out a new version, cool,
they get the new one, but if it breaks,
it'd just fall back to a slightly older
nav bar or something along those lines.
I think that there's a lot
of power in this, but
with an abundance of caution as a thing
that would keep me up at night.
>> What if the hosted app is React and
the expose library is built in Vue?
>> Good luck, [LAUGH] I mean,
theoretically, if you think about it cuz I
mean, yeah, you would need to be able to
like do something with what you receive.
Now, there are ways to handle that, right?
Theoretically, I'm just
exposing the component.
What I could do is expose
a function that takes an ID or
selector and then does react dom.mount in
these days into that div, right?
So for instance the navbar is Svelte but
I'm gonna render it
into React application.
So I can use Svelte2TSX that's a thing,
or I can just say,
yo instead of exposing
the component I'm exposing a function
that takes a selector and
will render it in there, all right?
You can do that you can mix and match
frameworks as much as you want, right?
You could have Vue render
into one div on the page.
A lot of times we do when we use any
frameworks we just have like an empty div
and our single page app that is like
root or app or something like that, but
you could just render React just into
a sidebar or just into a menu bar.
Those will all work, but you couldn't
just consumer React component in
Vue without some like tom foolery, right?
I'm not gonna say it's impossible, I'm just
saying it's not a built in thing, right?
Same way if you took a React library
that wasn't module federation, and
you tried to use a new Vue app,
could you do it?
Sure.
Are you in for a rough time?
Absolutely, right?
But yeah, at that point, I would just
target a DOM node and call it a day.
>> Is there a simpler approach
to module federation or
approach that you would use that is?
>> Yeah, I would just make a library.
Right, I think discussing that you can
do module federation in Vite is important.
I, especially as
the manager of the team and
the one who runs front end at the company,
I am by default,
more conservative than
the average developer, right?
In terms of like the risks that
I'm willing to take and so,
I do with an abundance of caution,
what we do,
we'll do it on like low risk
situations where again, updating four
websites with a new navbar or a new
button or whatever, it's tedious, right?
In our core app I told you we have that
open source one and then we actually
package up the open source app because
the cloud app is a superset around it.
We do that manually.
We bump the version.
We check it in staging,
and we deploy it, right?
We opted out of the convenience for
the safety.
However, I know people who work at a very,
very big corporation with a hundred
front-end teams, and just based on
the nature of their architecture,
that's not feasible and
this is the way forward for them.
I have personally made the decisions
in my architecture not to need,
to do this so much, again, I will do it
for if the navbar on the docs page falls
back to the one built into Docusaurus,
everyone's gonna live.
You know what I mean?
If the navbar on the education
site doesn't render at all for
an afternoon, that's not great,
but if it takes down
the product that makes us money,
I'm in trouble, [LAUGH] right?
So it is there as a tool.
And I do know, one of the reasons we
included it was that when I talked to
a bunch of senior engineers at a company
that I probably I can't name, but
whatever, they're we need this cuz, that
is the way our architecture is set up.
So, it is an option.
And there was a belief system that
only Webpack had this, right?
Vite clearly has it.
On the very basics,
not particularly hard to set up.
That doesn't mean that I endorse it,
[LAUGH] per se, or
think that it's a good idea.
Let me rephrase that.
I actively think it's not a good idea.
But there are practical use cases, but
I would treat it with
an abundance of caution.
I say that, be like, Steve showed us
this thing and it looks super cool,
we should do it everywhere.
Steve Kinney does not endorse this message.
My job is to inform and it was
definitely the first thing every senior
engineer said to me when I was
running this material past them.
So I felt like for the people who
need it you know already, like you've
probably built more infrastructure
around it than I have, right?
Because I've actively chosen not to,
right?
When I worked at Twilio,
we did move everything back into a mono
repo on purpose for reasons like this.
Now, granted,
the tooling when we made that choice
was not as good as the tooling is now.
We had 17 versions of react in a 10 year
old code base mixed with backbone and
Marionette and 1,000 other things.
So a modern code base might be
better set up and resilient, but
we made the decision to kind
of co-locate everything so
you could run one integrated test suite
at a one repo in one build process.
I've usually gone the mono-repo route and
not regretted it, but I do know that
the microfrontend route is also popular,
it's just not the one that I endorse.